It is an interesting point in time – at least for humans. We, collectively at a species, are the only known animal to have evolved in such a way that we have come to realize what biological evolution is and how it works. It may seem like a inconsequential and even philosophical consideration resulting from scientific inquiry, but to know how we came to be what we are does mean something more. The strangest of this knowledge, and what makes this such an interesting point in time for people, is that we are not limited to simply being aware of how evolution works. We can inspect it and asses it. Where evolution is limited to a single mind track – survive – we, though the processes of evolution, have come to a new era of awareness and prosperity. 
Of course, a percentage of humans on this planet are not prospering. To many, the daily struggle for survival is all too real, and this is a genuine issue deserving of attention. As a whole though, our species is thriving. We have taken over the globe in such a way that no other animal poses any sort of threat to our species. We manipulate the earth to do as we will. We flattened it, plow it, and grow all the food we want, like no other animal ever has. We drain ancient pools of energy from deep underground to power machines that accelerate nearly all parts of our lives. We are gods, we think.
But, also, we at times digress. For instance, if we have come to pick apart the very history that created us, mistake by mistake, why can we not yet command ourselves to discontinue the ongoing mistakes of evolution? One such mistake is our unwillingness to realize the commonality of our goals here on earth as humans, as people. In the great abundance of resources and knowledge we have gathered, why do we still fight over trivial matters? Why do some of us hoard food and goods for ourselves while others starve? 
We commit these mistakes and others because we have not yet come to fully believe in ourselves. We have obtained great power, but not yet accepted the responsibility that comes with it. Instead, we outsource the responsibility to good and evil, forces we believe to be innate and uncontrollable. Realistically though, is it not truly the lingering forces of evolution that prompt much that we believe to be evil? Good and evil, right and wrong – these things are recent creations that exist only within the minds of conscious beings. A weed in the earth may grow quickly, using up nutrients and quickly securing a spot in the sun before other plants have a chance to do the same, yet we know this behavior is an evolutionary tactic for survival, not greed. However, in our minds, we associate greed with poor morals, a characteristic we rarely link to evolution. 
People struggle, though, to realize the full potential of this new perspective we have been offered by our vast and growing understanding of the world around us. We have taken a step in the right direction, to (generally) label greed as a bad characteristic, but we rarely make a further and necessary connection; greed is an outdated evolutionary tactic for humans.
In many ways, we continue to live like our only purpose is to survive, when really, survival is a given for most people in the developed world. We do not leave our houses in the morning thinking, ‘I hope I survive today.’ It’s a given. It is not, however, foolish or even wrong that evolution has left its mark on us. Evolution is a part of us. We are the products of it. 
But, we are now also something more. We are conscious in a new way, a way evolution never was. We can gather large sums of information, consider the past, present and future, and make informed decisions. And, because of this, we know world peace makes sense. We must therefore, actively, push back against evolution where it was wrong. We must say no to absurd behavior based on evolution. We must say yes to our great fortunate we’ve been blessed with, our minds, and use it to create a new kind of evolution, one more aware and actively participating in the universe. 
